A16 Maturity model - Control over IT process Manage
Changes with the busienss goal of minimizing the 
likelihood of diruption unauthorized alterations and errors 


https://itdds.blogspot.com/2009/04/ai6-manage-changes.html

1 Non-existent when
There is no defined change management process, and changes can be made with virtually no control. There is no awareness
 that change can be disruptive for IT and business operations, and no awareness of the benefits of good change management.
2 Initial/Ad Hoc when
It is recognized that changes should be managed and controlled. Practices vary, and it is likely that unauthorized 
changes take place. There is poor or non-existent documentation of change, and configuration documentation is incomplete
 and unreliable. Errors are likely to occur together with interruptions to the production environment caused by poor 
 change management.
3 Repeatable but Intuitive when
There is an informal change management process in place and most changes follow this approach; however, it is unstructured,
 rudimentary and prone to error. Configuration documentation accuracy is inconsistent, and only limited planning and impact
 assessment take place prior to a change.
4 Defined when
There is a defined formal change management process in place, including categorization, prioritization, emergency procedures, 
change authorisation and release management, and compliance is emerging. Workarounds take place, and processes are often bypassed.
 Errors may occur and unauthorized changes occasionally occur. The analysis of the impact of IT changes on business operations is
 becoming formalized, to support planned roll-outs of new applications and technologies.
5 Managed and Measurable when
The change management process is well developed and consistently followed for all changes, and management is confident 
that there are minimal exceptions. The process is efficient and effective, but relies on considerable manual procedures
 and controls to ensure that quality is achieved. All changes are subject to thorough planning and impact assessment to
 minimize the likelihood of post-production problems. An approval process for changes is in place. Change management
 documentation is current and correct, with changes formally tracked. Configuration documentation is generally accurate. 
 IT change management planning and implementation are becoming more integrated with changes in the business processes, 
 to ensure that training, organizational changes and business continuity issues are addressed. There is increased co-ordination 
 between IT change management and business process redesign. There is a consistent process for monitoring the quality and 
 performance of the change management process.
6 Optimized when
The change management process is regularly reviewed and updated to stay in line with good practices. The review process
 reflects the outcome of monitoring. Configuration information is computer-based and provides version control. Tracking of 
 changes is sophisticated and includes tools to detect unauthorized and unlicensed software. IT change management is integrated 
 with business change management to ensure that IT is an enabler in increasing productivity and creating new business opportunities 
 for the organization.
 
 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IT_infrastructure_deployment#Deployment_Plan_Template

Deployment Plan Template
A deployment template is an unbound deployment plan which defines the steps of execution but not the profiles and systems. Deployment templates are patterns from which deployment plans can be created.
Typical information captured for each step in the deployment plan is:
Sequence Number
Activity Name
Activity Description (Detailed description)
Scripted Instruction
Start Date & Time
Expected Duration
Dependent Activities
Responsible Resource



